### Helmholt's theorem

Suppose the fluid is isentropic with no external firce or the force is conservative.

1. If $C_1$ and $C_2$ are any two curves encircling the vortex tube, then
    $$
    \int_{C_1} \textbf{u} \cdot d\textbf{x} = \int_{C_2} \textbf{u} \cdot d\textbf{x}.
    $$
    The common value is called the strength of the vortex tube.

2. The strength of the vortex tube is constant in time as the tube move with the fluid. 

#### proof

1. We first define a vortex surface (sheet) as a surface s.t. the vorticity vector $\xi = \nabla\times\textbf{u}$ us tangent to the surface at every point of the surface.

    Let $C_1$ and $C_2$ be oriented as above. The lateral surface of the vortex tube  anclosed between $C_1$ and $C_2$ is denoted by $S$ and the end faces with boundary $C_1$ and $C_2$ are denoted by $S_1$ and $S_2$ respectively.

    Since $\xi$ is tangent to $S$, where $S$ is the vortex sheet. Let $V$ denote the region of vortex tube between $S_1$ and $S_2$,
    $$
    \begin{aligned}
    0 &= \int_{V}(\operatorname{div}\xi)d\textbf{x}\\
    &= \int_{S_1\cup S_2\cup S_3} \xi\cdot\textbf{n}d\sigma\\
    &= \int_{S_1}\xi\cdot\textbf{n}d\sigma
    	+ \int_{S_2}\xi\cdot\textbf{n}d\sigma
    	+ \int_{S_3}\xi\cdot\textbf{n}d\sigma\\
    &= \int_{C_1}\textbf{u}\cdot d\textbf{x}
    	- \int_{C_2}\textbf{u}\cdot d\textbf{x}
    	+ 0\\
    \end{aligned}
    $$
    So, we have 
    $$
    \int_{C_1} \textbf{u} \cdot d\textbf{x} = \int_{C_2} \textbf{u} \cdot d\textbf{x}.
    $$

2. By Kelvin's circulation theorem.

### Theorem

Suppose the fluid is isentropic with no external forces or external force are conservative, then

1. The fluid element that lie on a vetex line at some instant continue to lie on a vortex line, i.e. if $L$ is a vortex line, then $\varphi_t(L)$ is a vortex line $\forall t>0$, which $\varphi_t$ is the flow map.
2. If $V$ is a vortex tube, then $\varphi_t$ is a vortex tube $\forall t>0$.

#### Proof 

(Sketch) Let $L$ be a vortex line at $t=0$, the one can show that $L$ is the intersection of $2$ vortex ($S_1$ and $S_2$ say).
Let $S_{*}\subset S_1$ be a region on $S_2$ and let $C=\partial S_{*}$ which is the boundary of $S_{*}$. So, $\xi\cdot\textbf{n} = 0$ on $S_{*}$, where $\xi=\nabla\times\textbf{u}$.

Then by Stoke's theorem 
$$
\int_{C} \textbf{u}\cdot d\textbf{x} = \int_{S^{*}} \textbf{w}\cdot\textbf{n}d\sigma = 0
$$
By Kelvin Circulation theorem and Stoke's theorem,
$$
\int_{\varphi_t(S_*)} \textbf{w}\cdot \textbf{n}d\sigma = 
\int_{\varphi_t(S_*)} \textbf{u}\cdot d\textbf{x} = 0,\quad \forall t>0,\quad S^{*} \subset S_1.
$$
